This repo gathers the input files and scripts related to our study entitled **"Tracing more than two decades of Japanese encephalitis virus circulation in mainland China"**. R scripts related to the analyses are all gathered within the file "R-script_phyloanalysis.R". 

We also include the XML file "Clade_19_cauchy_template_polygons_clean.xml" for performing continuous phylogeographic analyses (Lemey et al., 2010). This analysis is based on 1,000 empirical trees treated as fixed topologies, sampled from the time-scaled phylogenetic inference conducted with BEAST (Drummond et al., 2012; Suchard et al., 2018). Additionally, the administrative polygon contour for each sequence is incorporated as a prior range for possible sampling coordinates in "Clade_19_cauchy_polygons_clean.xml.

**Abstract:** Japanese encephalitis is a viral disease caused by the Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), primarily affecting rural areas of Asia and western Pacific region. China remains one of the main epicenters, experiencing a significant burden of human and animal cases despite vaccination efforts. The ecology of this arbovirus is complex, involving Culex mosquitoes as primary vectors, wading birds as natural reservoirs, and pigs as amplifying hosts. Given the virus's epidemiological importance in China, combined with the country's expanding pig farming industry and diverse climates, investigating the virus spread and its environmental drivers is needed to address its persistent burden. In this study, we conducted phylogeographic analyses by combining publicly available JEV envelope gene sequences from China and other regions. Our reconstructions revealed multiple introduction events leading to various circulating JEV clades in China, with one predominant clade. Additionally, our analyses showed a diffusion capacity of JEV exceeding previous estimates for co-circulating arboviruses. These differences could be attributed to pig trade or bird migration, calling for further investigations into the drivers of JEV spread.
